In this video, we'll learn some more about transactions.
We'll discuss two things.
First, we want it so that only someone who owns the money has access to spend it.
Next, we'll want it so that our transactions cannot be traced.
And finally, it should also be possible to share
this identity with others so that they can make transactions with you.
This is all solved in Bitcoin using what's known as a Bitcoin Wallet.
A Bitcoin Wallet establishes our identity on
the Blockchain and ensures we're able to do all the things we mentioned above,
it does this using private keys,
public keys and wallet addresses.
All three of these things are items contained within our wallet.
Let's go over some details of each of these.
A Wallet Address or address is a unique identifier for your wallet.
This address is a way to identify the owner of
a wallet that we can share with others to send and receive Bitcoin.
But wait, we've seen the details of each transactions
added to the blockchain including things like wallet addresses,
since we know that the purpose of the blockchain is to be secure,
it seems strange that we have our private information available for everyone to see.
We need to make sure transactions made with
his address are secure and can't be traced back to us,
the good news is, it can't.
But to understand why, we need to take a step back a bit,
the reason an address cannot be traced is because of how it's created.
It goes through a bit of a journey starting with
private keys and ending with a wallet address that you can share with anyone.
Let's start with private keys,
a private key also known as a secret key,
is a secret number that allows you to spend your bitcoin from your wallet.
These are randomly generated numbers that your wallet creates.
Wallets can contain one or more of
these private keys and these should not be shared with anyone.
Please be very careful with your private keys once you get started with your wallet.
The next step is to turn this completely secret private key into a public key.
A public key is derived from a private key and gives you
a publicly shareable key that cannot be used to spend bitcoin,
you can share these public keys with anyone and
don't need to worry about people accessing your bitcoin.
What they can use this for is to send you bitcoin.
Public keys aren't randomly generated numbers like private keys are,
they are created using private keys in a secure algorithm.
Public and private Keys have an interesting relationship to one another,
we can share our public key without worrying about the security of our private key.
Also, the private key has to be linked to the public key,
so that the private key can track the public key.
This is really interesting problem to solve with a pretty cool solution.
To do this, we use an algorithm that can create a public key using our private key.
But after creating the public key,
it shouldn't be possible to figure out what the original private key was.
That way we can share our public key with others to receive
money without worrying that they'll later be able to spend money from our wallet.
Bitcoin does this with an algorithm known as
a one-way Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm, ECDSA.
This algorithm takes in a private key and creates a public key.
A one-way algorithm is a term used for
any algorithm that's simple to execute in one direction,
but that's very difficult to reverse back to the original information.
In this case, the algorithm can easily create a public key,
but given that public key it's extremely
difficult to figure out what the private key was.
This allows us to hand out public keys safely while
our wallets track transactions using our private public key combinations.
Since this algorithm is so difficult to reverse,
anyone with our public key won't be able to figure out our private key.
So, this solves one big problem,
we have a key that's safe to share but there's another problem,
this public key can still be traced.